Add decorators to events, templates chapters. (#1004)
Polymer/lit-element: docs/_guide/templates.md

```js
class MyPage extends LitElement {
  ...
  render() {
    return html`

>       ${this.headerTemplate(this.article.title)}

Reviewer: Instead of passing an argument I would just access `this.article.title` in the headerTemplate. Or keep the argument and make header template standalone function to show that they don't need to be class methods.

Author: Urgh. I was trying to show functions here because someone was confused by the getters. 

Are standalone methods too confusing? I like showing that they don't need to be class methods, so I'll go with that.

For a list of directives supplied with lit-html, see [Built-in directives](https://lit-html.polymer-project.org/guide/template-reference#built-in-directives) in the Template syntax reference.

## Accessing nodes in the shadow DOM

> Templated DOM is usually rendered into shadow DOM, so the nodes are not direct children of the component. Use `this.shadowRoot.querySelector()` or `this.shadowRoot.querySelectorAll()` to find nodes in the 

Reviewer: maybe?

```suggestion
The `render()` method result is usually rendered into shadow DOM, so the nodes are not direct children of the component. Use `this.shadowRoot.querySelector()` or `this.shadowRoot.querySelectorAll()` to find nodes in the 
```

only because "templated DOM" seems to be a phrase of our own creation. I might change "templated DOM" below to "rendered DOM" too.

Author: It *is* a phrase of our own creation. We already use it a couple of times at the beginning of the chapter.

In the lit-html docs, we actually just say "templates"--like, "Styling templates"--when we really mean, "styling the DOM you create by rendering templates." If you think "rendered DOM" is clearer and less invented-y, we could rephrase this to, say, "Rendered DOM is usually placed in an open shadow root," or "The component's template is usually rendered into shadow DOM" and use "rendered DOM" below as you suggested.

Added this to today's docs meeting agenda if we need to discuss it further.

shadow DOM.

You can query the templated DOM after its initial render (for example, in `firstUpdated`), or use a getter pattern, like this:

```js

> get closeButton() {

Reviewer: Same as the comment on the `@query` example below, I would emphasize that this should probably be "private" unless you really want to expose the element publicly. So name it with a `_` prefix.

Author: So named.

  return this.shadowRoot.querySelector('#close-button');
}
```

LitElement supplies a set of decorators that provide a shorthand way of defining getters like this.

More information:

*   [Element.querySelector()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/querySelector) on MDN.
*   [Element.querySelectorAll()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/querySelectorAll) on MDN.

### @query, @queryAll, and @queryAsync decorators

The `@query`, `@queryAll`, and `@queryAsync` decorators all provide a convenient way to access nodes in the component's shadow root. 

<div class="alert alert-info">

**Using decorators.** Decorators are a proposed JavaScript feature, so you’ll need to use a compiler like Babel or the TypeScript compiler to use decorators. See [Using decorators](decorators) for details.

</div>

The `@query` decorator modifies a class property, turning it into a getter that returns a node from the render root.

```js
class MyElement {

>   @query('#first')

Reviewer: I would suggest making this a TypeScript example, making the field private, and naming it with a `_` prefix, because the queried elements are internal implementation details and `@query` is really meant to internal usage - we don't want authors accidentally making private things public.

Author: At the moment, we don't have anything to show it's a Typescript example, so I've been trying to limit Typescript-specific syntax to examples that are explicitly labeled Typescript (one more reason I'm dying to get a working code-switcher up and running).

How about I just use the `_` and add a note about how these properties should typically be protected or private (`_` convention or Typescript's `private` or `protected` keywords).

</div>

The `@queryAll` decorator is identical to `query` except that it returns all matching nodes, instead of a single node. It's the equivalent of calling `querySelectorAll`.

```js
class MyElement {
  @queryAll('div')
  divs;

  render() {
    return html`
      <div id="first"></div>
      <div id="second"></div>
    `;
  }
}
```

Here, `divs` would return both `<div>` elements in the template. For TypeScript, the typing of a `@queryAll` property is `NodeListOf<HTMLElement>`. If you know exactly what kind of nodes you'll retrieve, the typing can be more specific:

```
@queryAll('button')
buttons!: NodeListOf<HTMLButtonElement>
```

The exclamation point (`!`) after `buttons` is TypeScript's [non-null assertion operator](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-2-0.html#non-null-assertion-operator). It tells the compiler to treat `buttons` as always being defined, never `null` or `undefined`.

Finally, `@queryAsync` works like `@query`, except that instead of returning a node directly, it returns a `Promise` that resolves to that node. External code can use this instead of waiting for the `updateComplete` promise. 

> This is useful, for example, if the node returned by `@queryAsync` can change as a result of another property change. 

Reviewer: Maybe @sorvell can add some insight on documenting `@queryAsync` externally. It's most for internal tool usage, and I'm a little worried that it seems like we're encouraging exposing shadow DOM contents publicly here. I wonder how we can describe this well, or if we should just ignore `@queryAsync` in the main docs.

Author: By "internal tool usage" do you mean for testing? I'm not actually too clear on the use cases for this decorator. 

Help me @sorvell you're my only hope!

Reviewer 2: Sorry, that comment was unclear.

I was imagining the use case where a dev decides to expose a public property via `@query('.foo') fooElement`. In order for that to work correctly at all times, the user would have to `await element.updateComplete`:

```
await element.updateComplete;
element.fooElement.textContent = 'hi';
```
Instead the dev may choose to expose the property with `@queryAsync('.foo') fooElement;` so the user code can be more compact:

```
(await element.fooElement).textContent = 'hi';
```

Author: OK, understood. I think the concern @justinfagnani had was that these properties that expose shadow DOM children should probably be internal so we don't leak implementation details.

That said, a property getter provides more controlled access than having the user code call `element.shadowRoot.querySelector()` themselves. So...

Author: For now, just leaving this in with the word "external" removed.

```js
get slottedChildren() {
  const slot = this.shadowRoot.querySelector('slot');
  const childNodes = slot.assignedNodes({flatten: true});
  return Array.prototype.filter.call(childNodes, (node) => node.nodeType == Node.ELEMENT_NODE);
}
```

You can also use the `slotchange` event to take action when the assigned nodes change. The following example extracts the text content of all of the slotted children.

```js
handleSlotchange(e) {
  const childNodes = e.target.assignedNodes({flatten: true});
  // ... do something with childNodes ...
  this.allText = Array.prototype.map.call(childNodes, (node) => {
    return node.textContent ? node.textContent : ''
  }).join('');
}

render() {
  return html`<slot @slotchange=${this.handleSlotchange}></slot>`;
}
```

More information:

*   [HTMLSlotElement](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLSlotElement) on MDN.

### @queryAssignedNodes decorator

The `@queryAssignedNodes` decorator converts a class property into a getter that returns all of the assigned nodes for a given slot in the component's shadow tree. 

<div class="alert alert-info">

> **Using decorators.** Decorators are a proposed JavaScript feature, so you’ll need to use a compiler like Babel or the TypeScript compiler to use decorators. See [Using decorators](decorators) for details.

Reviewer: Is there a way to define this snippet in a common location and include it?

Author: Possibly? I think we'll only end up with a total of 4 or 5 instances of it in the doc set, though.

</div>

```js
// First argument is the slot name
// Second argument is `true` to flatten the assigned nodes.
@queryAssignedNodes('header', true)

> headerNodes;

Reviewer: Maybe make these private too, though it's a little less of a concern because child nodes are already public external to the element. I just want to reinforce that class members defined only to help with the component implementation should be private by default.

Author: Sure, SG.
